.TH palogist 1 "23 February 2012"
.SH NAME
palogist \- Perform Genome-Wide Association Analysis using a linear model
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B palogist
.RI "[ " "command-line options" " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I palogist
runs a linear regression on large imputed data sets in an efficient way.
.SH Options
.SS Required command line options
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\^\-pheno" " FILE"
Read phenotype data from
.I FILE
.TP
.BI "\-i, \-\^\-info" " FILE"
Read SNP information from
.I FILE
(e.g. MLINFO file).
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\^\-dose" " FILE"
SNP predictor (e.g. MLDOSE/MLPROB) file name.
.SS Optional command line options
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-map" " FILE"
Map file name, containing base pair positions for each SNP.
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-nids" " NUMBER"
Number of people to analyse.
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-chrom"  " FILE"
Chromosome (to be passed to output).
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-out" " FILE"
Output file name (default is
.B regression.out.txt
).
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-skipd" " NUMBER"
How many columns to skip in predictor (dose/prob) file (default is 2).
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-ntraits" " NUMBER"
How many traits are analysed (default is 1).
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-ngpreds"  " NUMBER"
How many predictor columns per marker (default 1 = MLDOSE; else use 2 for MLPROB).
.TP
.B "\-\^\-separat" " FILE"
Character to separate fields (default is space).
.TP
.B \-\^\-score
Use the score test.
.TP
.B \-\^\-no-head
Do not report header line in the output.
.TP
.B \-\^\-allcov
Report estimates for all covariates (large outputs!).
.TP
.B \-\^\-interaction
Which covariate to use for interaction with SNP analysis (default is no interaction, 0).
.TP
.B \-\^\-interaction_only
Like
.B \-\^\-interaction
but without covariate acting in interaction with SNP (default is no interaction, 0).
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-mmscore" " FILE"
Score test in samples of related individuals. The FILE argument is the name of a file with the inverse correlation matrix. NOTE THAT THIS FEATURE IS STILL EXPERIMENTAL!
.TP
.B \-\^\-robust
Report robust (a.k.a. sandwich, a.k.a. Hubert-White) standard errors.
.TP
.B \-\^\-help
Print help.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
palinear(1), pacoxph(1)
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHORS
Lennart C. Karssen
