.TH extract-snp 1 "21 September 2015" "ProbABEL 0.4.5"
.SH NAME
extract-snp \- tool to extract dosage values for a given SNP for all or some individuals.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extract-snp
.B "-f\ \fIFILE\fR"
.B "-s\ \fISNPNAME\fR"
.RI "[" "OPTIONS" "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B extract-snp
extracts the dosage for a SNP for one or more individuals from a file in filevector
format (.fvi/.fvd).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Required command line options
.TP
.BI "-f, \-\^\-file" " FILE"
Name of the filevector file from which to extract the dosages. This
can be either the file with the .fvi or the .fvd extension.
.TP
.BI "-s, \-\^\-snp" " snpname"
Name of the SNP or variant for which to extract the dosages
.RE
.SS Other, non-mandatory options
.TP
.BI "-i, \-\^\-id" " individualID"
Extract the dosage for only one individual (with ID
\fIindividualID\fR) for the SNP listed with the \-\-snp option.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-h, \-\^\-help"
Print usage information to the screen and exit.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-d, \-\^\-debug"
Turn on debug mode. This will print a lot of extra output to the
screen, for example it lists the names of all individuals and SNPs
found in the file.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
This extracts the dosages for all individuals:
.nf
.RS
extract-snp \-f ../checks/inputfiles/mmscore_gen.dose.fvi \-s  rs70099 > dosage.txt
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
palinear(1), palogist(1), pacoxph(1), probabel(1), and the R package DatABEL.
.SH BUGS
The bugtracker is located at
.br
https://r-forge.r-project.org/tracker/?group_id=505
.SH AUTHORS
Lennart C. Karssen
